

                                TCLink v3.3
                             PHP Implementation
                       copyright (C) TrustCommerce 2002
                         http://www.trustcommerce.com
                         developer@trustcommerce.com

                                July 17, 2002

I. DESCRIPTION

  TCLink is a thin client library to allow your e-commerce servers to
connect to the TrustCommerce payment gateway easily and consistently.
The protocol (which is the same across all platforms and languages) is
well-documented in the Web Developer's Guide, so please consult it for
any questions you may have about the protocol syntax itself.

  If you are using Python on Win32, do not use this client.  Please
download the COM object from the Vault website instead.

  TCLink was originally ported to PHP by Andrew Barnett of Data Clarity.
Thanks go to both him (for the code) and his business (for their support
of open source).


II. COMPILATION

  If you would like to recompile PHP with support for TCLink, be sure
to run "./configure --with-openssl" first, as TCLink relies on OpenSSL.
Note that if your PHP installation already includes TCLink, there is
no need to do any compilation.


III. INSTALLATION

  If you have root access to the machine, you will probably want to
install TCLink as a global extension.  You can do this by copying the
module library (modules/tclink.so) to your PHP extensions directory
(typically /usr/lib/php4) if it is not already installed there by
default.  Your extensions directory is defined by the "extension_dir"
directive in php.ini.

  Edit php.ini (typically found in /etc) and add the following line:

    extension=tclink.so

  Restart your webserver, and all PHP scripts will have access to TCLink.

  If you can't or don't want to install the module system wide, you can
still load it manually in each script that needs to access it through
the dl() call.  See the top of tctest.php for an example.


IV. USAGE

  The tctest.php script shows a simple example of running transactions
through the TCLink API.  A more complex example is contained in
tcexample.php.  For further information, please consult the TC
Developer's Guide, located in the doc subdirectory.

  A note to users of TCLink PHP prior to 3.3: the API has changed from
the C-style interface, to a single tclink_send() function which accepts
a hash (associative array) of input parameters, and returns a hash with
the output parameters.  Please see the examples to update your code.
